---
title: Release notes for QDK and Azure Quantum - 2018
description: Learn about updates to the Microsoft Quantum Development Kit (QDK) and Azure Quantum in 2018.
ms.date: 11/17/2023
author: SoniaLopezBravo
ms.author: sonialopez
ms.service: azure-quantum
ms.subservice: qdk
ms.topic: conceptual
no-loc: ['Q#', '$$v', Quantum Development Kit, Quantum machine learning, Quantum Intermediate Representation, Basic measurement feedback, target, targets]
uid: microsoft.quantum.relnotes-qdk-2018
---

# Release notes for Quantum Development Kit (QDK) and Azure Quantum - 2018

This article outlines updates to the [Quantum Development Kit (QDK)](xref:microsoft.quantum.install-qdk.overview) and the [Azure Quantum service](xref:microsoft.quantum.azure-quantum-overview) in 2018.

## QDK version 0.3.1811.2802

### 2018-11-28

Even though our VS Code extension wasn't using it, it was flagged and removed from the marketplace during
[the extensions purge](https://code.visualstudio.com/blogs/2018/11/26/event-stream) related to the `event-stream` npm package. 
This version removes all runtime dependencies that could make the extension trigger any red flags.

If you had previously installed the extension, you need to install it again by visiting
the [Microsoft Quantum Development Kit for Visual Studio Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=quantum.quantum-devkit-vscode) extension on the Visual Studio Marketplace and press Install. We're sorry about the inconvenience.

## QDK version 0.3.1811.1511

### 2018-11-20

This release fixes a bug that prevented some users to successfully load the Visual Studio extension.

## QDK version 0.3.1811.203

### 2018-11-02

This release includes a few bug fixes, including:

* Invoking `DumpMachine` could change the state of the simulator under certain situations.
* Removed compilation warnings when building projects using a version of .NET Core previous to 2.1.403.
* Clean up of documentation, specially the tooltips shown during mouse hover in VS Code or Visual Studio.

## QDK version 0.3.1810.2508

### 2018-10-29

This release includes new language features and an improved developer experience:

* This release includes a language server for Q#, and the client integrations for Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code. This enables a new set of IntelliSense features along with live feedback on typing in form of squiggly underlinings of errors and warnings. 
* This update greatly improves diagnostic messages in general, with easy navigation to and precise ranges for diagnostics and additional details in the displayed hover information.
* The Q# language has been extended in ways that unifies the ways developers can do common operations and new enhancements to the language features to powerfully express quantum computation.  There are a handful of breaking changes to the Q# language with this release.

This release also includes a new quantum chemistry library:

- The chemistry library contains new Hamiltonian simulation features, including:
  - Trotter–Suzuki integrators of arbitrary even order for improved simulation accuracy.
  - Qubitization simulation technique with chemistry-specific optimizations for reducing $T$-gate complexity.
- A new open-source schema, called Broombridge Schema (in reference to a [landmark](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broom_Bridge) celebrated as a birthplace of Hamiltonians), is introduced for importing representations of molecules and simulating them.
- Multiple chemical representations defined using the Broombridge Schema are provided.  These models were generated by [NWChem](https://nwchemgit.github.io/), an open source high-performance computational chemistry tool.
- Tutorials and Samples describe how to use the chemistry library and the Broombridge data models to:
  - Construct simple Hamiltonians using the chemistry library
  - Visualize ground and excited energies of Lithium Hydride using phase estimation.
  - Perform resource estimates of quantum chemistry simulation.
  - Estimate energy levels of molecules represented by the Broombridge schema.
- Documentation describes how to use NWChem to generate additional chemical models for quantum simulation with Q#.

With the new chemistry library, we're separating out the libraries into a new GitHub repo, [Microsoft/QuantumLibraries](https://github.com/Microsoft/QuantumLibraries).  The samples remain in the repo [Microsoft/Quantum](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum).  We welcome contributions to both!

This release includes bug fixes and features for issues reported by the community.

#### Community contributions

**"Thank you!"** to the following contributors to our open code base at https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum. These contributions add to the rich samples of Q# code:

- Rolf Huisman ([@RolfHuisman](https://github.com/RolfHuisman)): Improved the experience for QASM/Q# developers by creating a QASM to Q# translator. [PR #58](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/58).

- Andrew Helwer ([@ahelwer](https://github.com/ahelwer)):  Contributed a sample implementing the CHSH Game, a quantum game related to nonlocality.  [PR #84](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/84).

Thank you also to Rohit Gupta ([@guptarohit](https://github.com/guptarohit),[PR #90](https://github.com/Microsoft/quantum/pull/90)), Tanaka Takayoshi ([@tanaka-takayoshi](https://github.com/tanaka-takayoshi),[PR #289](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr/pull/289)), and Lee James O'Riordan ([@mlxd](https://github.com/mlxd),[PR #96](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/96)) for their work improving the content for all of us through documentation, spelling and typo corrections!

## QDK version 0.2.1809.701

### 2018-09-10

This release includes bug fixes for issues reported by the community.

## QDK version 0.2.1806.3001

### 2018-06-30

This release is just a quick fix for [issue #48 reported on GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/issues/48) (Q# compilation fails if user name contains a blank space). Follow same update instructions as `0.2.1806.1503` with the corresponding new version (`0.2.1806.3001-preview`).

## QDK version 0.2.1806.1503

### 2018-06-22

This release includes several community contributions and an improved debugging experience and improved performance.  Specifically:

- Performance improvements on both small and large simulations for the QuantumSimulator target machine.
- Improved debugging functionality.
- Community contributions in bug fixes, new helper functions, operations and new samples.

#### Performance improvements

This update includes performance improvements for simulation of large and small numbers of qubits for all the target machines.  This improvement is easily visible with the H<sub>2</sub> simulation that is a standard sample in the Quantum Development Kit.

#### Improved debugging functionality

This update adds new debugging functionality:
- Added two new operations,  @"microsoft.quantum.extensions.diagnostics.dumpmachine" and @"microsoft.quantum.extensions.diagnostics.dumpregister" that output wave function information about the target quantum machine at that point in time.  
- In Visual Studio, the probability of measuring a $\ket{1}$ on a single qubit is now automatically shown in the debugging window for the QuantumSimulator target machine.
- In Visual Studio, improved the display of variable properties in the **Autos** and **Locals** debug windows. 

Learn more about [Testing and Debugging](xref:microsoft.quantum.user-guide-qdk.overview.testingdebugging).

#### Community contributions

The Q# coder community is growing and we're thrilled to see the first user contributed libraries and samples that were submitted to our open code base at https://github.com/Microsoft/quantum.  **A big "Thank you!"** to the following contributors:
- Mathias Soeken ([@msoeken](https://github.com/msoeken)):  contributed a sample defining a transformation-based logic synthesis method that constructs Toffoli networks to implement a given permutation. The code is written entirely in Q# functions and operations.  [PR #41](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/41).
- RolfHuisman ([@RolfHuisman](https://github.com/RolfHuisman)): Microsoft MVP Rolf Huisman contributed a sample that generates flat QASM code from Q# code for a restricted class of programs that don't have classical control flow and restricted quantum operations. [PR #59](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/59)
- Sarah Kasier ([@crazy4pi314](https://github.com/crazy4pi314)): helped to improve our code base by submitting a library function for controlled operations. [PR #53](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/53)
- Jessica Lemieux ([@Lemj3111](https://github.com/Lemj3111)): fixed @"microsoft.quantum.canon.quantumphaseestimation" and created new unit tests.  [PR #54](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/54)
- Tama McGlinn ([@TamaMcGlinn](https://github.com/TamaMcGlinn)): cleaned the Teleportation sample by making sure the QuantumSimulator instance is disposed. [PR #20](https://github.com/Microsoft/Quantum/pull/20)

Additionally, a big **"Thank You!"** to these Microsoft Software Engineers from the Commercial Engineering Services team contributors who made valuable changes to our documentation during their Hackathon.  Their changes vastly improved the clarity and onboarding experience for all of us:

- Sascha Corti
- Mihaela Curmei
- John Donnelly
- Kirill Logachev
- Jan Pospisil
- Anita Ramanan
- Frances Tibble
- Alessandro Vozza

#### Update existing projects

This release is fully backwards compatible. Just update the NuGet packages in your projects to version `0.2.1806.1503-preview` and do a **full rebuild** to make sure all intermediate files are regenerated.

From Visual Studio, follow the normal instructions on how to [update a package](/nuget/tools/package-manager-ui#updating-a-package).

To update project templates for the command line, run the following command:

```bash
dotnet new -i "Microsoft.Quantum.ProjectTemplates::0.2.1806.1503-preview"
```

After running this command, any new projects created using `dotnet new <project-type> -lang Q#` automatically use this version of the Quantum Development Kit.

To update an existing project to use the newest version, run the following command from within the directory for each project:

```bash
dotnet add package Microsoft.Quantum.Development.Kit -v "0.2.1806.1503-preview"
dotnet add package Microsoft.Quantum.Canon -v "0.2.1806.1503-preview"
```

If an existing project also uses XUnit integration for unit testing, then a similar command can be used to update that package as well:

```bash
dotnet add package Microsoft.Quantum.Xunit -v "0.2.1806.1503-preview"
```

Depending on the version of XUnit that your test project uses, you may also need to update XUnit to 2.3.1:

```bash
dotnet add package xunit -v "2.3.1" 
```

After the update, make sure you remove all temporary files generated by the previous version by doing:

```bash
dotnet clean 
```

#### Known issues

No other known issues to report.

## QDK version 0.2.1802.2202

### 2018-02-26

This release brings support for development on more platforms, language interoperability, and performance enhancements. Specifically:

- Support for macOS- and Linux-based development. 
- .NET Core compatibility, including support for Visual Studio Code across platforms.
- A full Open Source license for the Quantum Development Kit Libraries.
- Improved simulator performance on projects requiring 20 or more qubits.
- Interoperability with the Python language (preview release available on Windows).

#### .NET editions

The .NET platform is available through two different editions, the .NET Framework that is provided with Windows, and the open-source .NET Core that is available on Windows, macOS and Linux.
With this release, most parts of the Quantum Development Kit are provided as libraries for .NET Standard, the set of classes common to both Framework and Core.
These libraries are then compatible with recent versions of either .NET Framework or .NET Core.

To help ensure that projects written using the Quantum Development Kit are as portable as possible, we recommend that library projects written using the Quantum Development Kit target .NET Standard. Console applications should target .NET Core.
Since previous releases of the Quantum Development Kit only supported .NET Framework, you may need to migrate your existing projects. See below for details on how to do this.

#### Project migration

Projects created using previous versions of Quantum Development Kit still work, as long as you don't update the NuGet packages used in them. To migrate existing code to the new version, do the following steps:

1. Create a new .NET Core project using the right type of Q# project template (Application, Library or Test Project).
2. Copy existing `.qs` and `.cs`/`.fs` files from the old project to the new project (using Add > Existing Item). Don't copy the AssemblyInfo.cs file.
3. Build and run the new project.

Note that the operation RandomWalkPhaseEstimation from the namespace Microsoft.Quantum.Canon was moved into the namespace Microsoft.Research.Quantum.RandomWalkPhaseEstimation in the [Microsoft/Quantum-NC](https://github.com/microsoft/quantum-nc) repository.

#### Known issues

- The `--filter` option to `dotnet test` doesn't work correctly for tests written in Q#.
  As a result, individual unit tests can't be run in Visual Studio Code; we recommend using `dotnet test` at the command prompt to re-run all tests.

## QDK version 0.1.1801.1707

### 2018-01-18

This release fixes some issues reported by the community. Namely:

- The simulator now works with early non-AVX-enabled CPUs.
- Regional decimal settings don't cause the Q# parser to fail.
- `SignD` primitive operation now returns `Int` rather than `Double`.


-